# Contributing to CZERTAINLY

We encourage everyone to make contributions to CZERTAINLY platform. You can be a part of the community and improving the security of the internet. Your contribution is important to enhance the platform and make it more affordable and available for all of us using digital certificate.

We use [GitHub](https://github.com/) to manage CZERTAINLY project and all source codes, including tracking issues.

## Source code management

[GitHub](https://github.com/) is used as version control system.
We are trying to use (where possible) the [Vincent Driessen’s "git flow" branching model](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/). It is a git branching and release management workflow that helps us keep track of features, hotfixes and releases in CZERTAINLY projects.

## Issues

All issues are managed in respective [GitHub](https://github.com/) repositories.
We are using pre-defined issue templates and proper labelling to benefit from the automation process of assigning the issues to the right team and to generate the proper reports. Therefore each issue should be labelled with the appropriate labels.

### Feature

Your are welcome to enhance the platform by adding new features. You can crate a pull request with the new feature. Do not forget to look into the list of current issues to find out of the feature is already implemented or someone is working on it. If you would like to discuss the feature, please create a new **Feature** issue.

For new **Feature** issue, please describe at least the following:
```
**Is your feature request related to a problem? Please describe.**
A clear and concise description of what the problem is. Ex. I'm always frustrated when [...]

**Describe the solution you'd like**
A clear and concise description of what you want to happen.

**Describe alternatives you've considered**
A clear and concise description of any alternative solutions or features you've considered.

**Additional context**
Add any other context or screenshots about the feature request here.
```

### Bug

If you believe that the platform does not behave correctly and you have found a bug, you can create a **Bug** issue. Please do not forget to look into the list of current issues to find out if the bug is already fixed or someone is working on it.

When opening a new **Bug** issue, please use the following template to provide relevant information:
```
**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:
1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

**Environment (please complete the following information):**
 - OS: [e.g. iOS]
 - Browser [e.g. chrome, safari]
 - Version [e.g. 22]

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

**Affected versions and components**
A clear and concise description of the affected versions and components.
```
You can also write any additional information you find relevant.

### Vulnerability

You can create a **Vulnerability** issue in case you believe that the vulnerability has been introduced in the platform. Our development process consists of automated vulnerability management, including dependency checks, static analysis of the code, and penetration testing. We are using the most common CVE databases and monitoring CVEs through the [CVE Radar](https://www.cveradar.com/) tool.

When opening a new **Vulnerability** issue, please use the following template to provide relevant information:
```
**Describe the vulnerability**
A clear and concise description of the vulnerability or security issue.

**Affected components**
- Component / Version:

**Link to the CVE description**
Link or any further information on the vulnerability, consisting the impact and recommended actions to mitigate.

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.
```

## Commit rules

- Commit Related Changes
- Commit Often
- Don't Commit Half-Done Work
- Test Your Code Before You Commit
- Write Good Commit Messages
- Use Branches
- Always Link Commits

### Commit format

- Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary
- More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72 characters. In some contexts, the first line is treated as the subject of an email and the rest of the text as the body. The blank line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit the body entirely); tools like rebase can get confused if you run the two together.
- Always leave the second line blank.
- Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.
- Further paragraphs come after blank lines. 
  - Bullet points are okay, too
  - Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, preceded by a single space, with blank lines in between, but conventions vary here
  - Use a hanging indent

### Commit template

```
[Capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary]

[More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72 characters]

Link: [GitHub Issue]
```

## IDE

For all development tasks, we prefer:
- [JetBrains](https://www.jetbrains.com/) IDE (IntelliJ IDEA, WebStorm, PyCharm, etc.)
- [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/) IDE
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) editor

## Development process in steps

The following steps should be generally followed for all development tasks:
1. Clone or fork the repo and create your branch
2. Add your code to the branch
3. Prepare tests for your code (if needed)
4. Make sure that your code is written according the conventions
5. Ensure that your code builds and tests pass
6. Do not commit files and folder not related to the code
7. Create a pull request
